README.md, before:

# Short hands-on introduction to deep learning, with Keras.

## Installing Keras

**UPDATE:** Check out the cool install script by Akos Hochrein:
https://github.com/akoskaaa/hands-on-deep-learning


Installing Theano and its dependencies is the hard part:
http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/install.html#install

After that, a simple
```sudo pip install keras```
is enough, although the bleeding edge git version is often better than the pip version.

If you have an Nvidia video card, you are advised to also install CUDA and CuDNN.
The first steps of the Theano installation instructions explain how:

For Ubuntu:
http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/install_ubuntu.html#install-ubuntu

For OS X:
http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/install.html#gpu-macos

The examples are 5-15 times faster when running on GPU.


TODO Check if pip version is compatible with our examples.

TODO Set up ```.theanorc```.

## Running the handwritten digit recognition code

We train and evaluate our own handwritten digit recognition network.

```python mnist_mlp.py```

The evaluation results are written to standard output, and a confusion matrix
visualization is written to ```vis.png```.

## Running the VGG-16 image classification code

Unlike with the handwritten digit example, now we don't train a network, we just use one
designed and trained by smart people.

You need the pre-trained VGG16 model weights file called ```vgg16_weights.h5```, from
https://drive.google.com/file/d/0Bz7KyqmuGsilT0J5dmRCM0ROVHc/view
You have to open the link in a browser, wget is circumvented.

```python vgg16_predictor.py image1.png image2.png ...```

Output looks like this. The numbers are prediction probabilities:

```
jersey = 0.194810 , electric_guitar = 0.056235 , acoustic_guitar = 0.039047 , lab_coat = 0.037690 , drumstick = 0.036288 ,
lorikeet = 0.937200 , hummingbird = 0.022311 , peacock = 0.013273 , macaw = 0.011136 , jacamar = 0.003892 ,
streetcar = 0.330774 , palace = 0.210260 , trolleybus = 0.080859 , cinema = 0.044910 , traffic_light = 0.032249 ,
```

## Running the deep dream code

This code also requires the pre-trained VGG16 model weights, see above.

```python vgg16_deep_dream.py input_image.png output_file_prefix```

The final output is in ```output_file_prefix_at_iteration_9.png```.

Commit message:

Akos's setup, doc, better mnist net.

README.md, after:

# Short hands-on introduction to deep learning, with Keras.

## Installing Keras

The best way is to use [Akos Hochrein's](https://github.com/akoskaaa) installation script
```setup.sh```, now part of this repo (thanks, Akos!).
It can work with either the Theano or the Tensorflow backend, and it installs into a virtualenv.

With [Theano](http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/)
```
./setup.sh
```

With [TensorFlow](https://www.tensorflow.org/)
```
./setup.sh --tensorflow

If you have an Nvidia video card, you are advised to install CUDA and CuDNN.
The first steps of the Theano installation instructions explain how:

For Ubuntu:
http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/install_ubuntu.html#install-ubuntu

For OS X:
http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/install.html#gpu-macos

The examples are 5-15 times faster when running on a GPU.
On a Linux machine, it's also worth looking into the linear algebra libraries installed,
see the above Ubuntu link for more information (Chapter: Troubleshooting: Make sure you have a BLAS library).


## Running the handwritten digit recognition code

We train and evaluate our own handwritten digit recognition network.

```python mnist_mlp.py```

The evaluation results are written to standard output, and a confusion matrix
visualization is written to ```vis.png```. The confusion matrix looks like this:

![MNIST confusion matrix](http://people.mokk.bme.hu/~daniel/keras-hands-on-mnist-confusion.png "MNIST confusion matrix")


## Running the VGG-16 image classification code

Unlike with the handwritten digit example, now we don't train a network, we just use one
designed and trained by smart people.

You need the pre-trained VGG16 model weights file called ```vgg16_weights.h5```, from
https://drive.google.com/file/d/0Bz7KyqmuGsilT0J5dmRCM0ROVHc/view
You have to open the link in a browser, wget is circumvented.

```python vgg16_predictor.py image1.png image2.png ...```

Output looks like this. The numbers are TOP 5 prediction probabilities, each line is corresponding to an image:

```
jersey = 0.194810 , electric_guitar = 0.056235 , acoustic_guitar = 0.039047 , lab_coat = 0.037690 , drumstick = 0.036288 ,
lorikeet = 0.937200 , hummingbird = 0.022311 , peacock = 0.013273 , macaw = 0.011136 , jacamar = 0.003892 ,
streetcar = 0.330774 , palace = 0.210260 , trolleybus = 0.080859 , cinema = 0.044910 , traffic_light = 0.032249 ,
```

By the way, most of the ```vgg16_predictor.py``` code is obsoleted by
the recent publication of https://github.com/fchollet/deep-learning-models ,
which is more robust and general.


## Running the deep dream code

This code also requires the pre-trained VGG16 model weights, see above.

```python vgg16_deep_dream.py input_image.png output_file_prefix```

The final output is in ```output_file_prefix_at_iteration_9.png```.
